In the last lecture when we tried to store our comment using our API we have encountered this error
trying to get property I.D. off non object.
Now this has happened because of this line and in this line we tried to get the currently authenticated
user and his I.D..
Now the problem with that is that we haven't specified anywhere that this end point requires authentication
and also we have not authenticated in any way.
Now we know that the simplest way to specify that certain end point requires out integration is by applying
the middleware to this action or to the whole controller.
So let's open the post controller and this is how we did it in this post controller in the constructor.
We applied that of middle were to specific actions that require authentication.
Now the alpha middleware can also specify which guards you should use so take a look at the Alpha BHP
configuration file where we have the guards specified.
Now scroll to the top so we can see that the default guard is web and now that's the reason why here
we haven't specified of web.
We just used ours because web is the default guard so let's go back to the configuration file and you
can see that those two guards have specific options.
So the first one is driver.
This means how the authentication is banks handled.
So basically in the web card you use the session so you authenticate using a form and then those information
are stored inside your speech be session and whenever user visits the page he has a cookie returned
from the server which identifies the session.
So this is our session.
Well session I.D. And now the browser ultimately sent Spock this cookie on every subsequent request.
So a lot of us can identify the user session and then it knows whether he is out integrated or not.
Now it is a different story with API ice as you can see we have a driver token now with driver token.
You will have to send this token on every request and the only then Lavell will.
We'll see if you are who you say you are.
So now let's go to the post comment controller are the constructor here so we can specify that our middleware.
So this this middleware.
And this time we have to specify API which means we want to use the API card and now we can specify
to which actions we would like to apply this so currently we'll be only working with store.
So let's keep it like that.
Now let's go back to the postman and try sending this request again.
And now at least we get a normal error.
The proper code which is 401 unaltered outcries this will always be returned when the user is not authenticated.
This is HDP standard and lot of takes care of that and a message aren't authenticated OK so we have
something we have protected the end point but now where are those tokens stored.
How do you send them to the API end point.
And how does larval process this tokens so this is actually very well documented.
And the simplest way to achieve this is to create a new field inside the user stable called API token.
This is of course configurable.
And this token will be constant constant means that this will be assigned to the user once and then
you will send a token specific for a user.
So each user has our unique token inside the database in the user's table and a lot of URL will verify
if the token you are sending matches any user inside the database.
If it does then it will consider that this user is so antiquated.
So of course we have to first create migration for this API token to be stored.
So let's go to visual studio code.
Open the terminal and run.
Peach bee artisan make migration at API token to users table
now let's open this new migration file.
Of course it can be found inside the database migrations at the very bottom and what we can simply do
is just copy the migration specified inside the documentation.
This will work well.
So we are adding a student field API token with the length of 18 after the column password.
It has to be unique new level and the default is no.
And then let's at table drop column to be able to roll back this migration.
So now you can run peach bee artisan migrate and this or API token is now added to the user's table.
You can verify if the column was added by opening the user's table impeach my other mean you should
see the API token column with no values for every user just after the password column.
Now we can't use these tokens just yet of course because this column is empty.
So for our data data that we have seeded we would need to modify the user's tables seeder since the
user Staples cedar is using the model factory.
Let's open the user's model factory.
So it is here and now let's take a look.
So we have that password column the remember token it.
And well we can also generate the API token so you can either use the built in peach bee as the air
random or alternatively there is as the error class which has random function.
So let's find that as the error class.
This comes in Lavell.
So the namespace is Illumina need support as the error we have to import that.
So we use Illuminate Support as the are
and this random method allows us to generate a random string.
This is more secure than what you would get.
Ultimately we've esta error random.
So since our column length is 80 so let's generate that token the random token which will have the length
of 80 so say that changes note on Peach bee artisan Debbie seed to reload the database.
So we are using the default options as usual.
Okay.
It was completed successfully so let's refresh the user's table and you can see that for every user.
Now you have a random token generated.
So now you can double click this API token column and copy the API token so remember each user has a
unique individual token by which it would be identified by Lavell.
Now let's see how we can pass this token when making a request to an API endpoint in light of all.
So this is actually documented and you have a couple of options.
The first one is to pass it as a query string so you can just pass API token in your URL parameters.
The next option is using the request payload.
And in this case this would be like you would be sending a form so you aren't foreign power arms and
you can specify API token.
We want to use this option.
This is not really useful for RESTful API.
And the first option and in my opinion it's the best one is to provide an outer resolution header which
would contain a beta token.
So the contents of this header always start with the beta key word space followed by the token.
So let's see how those options actually work and try them out in postman but before we try out sending
a token fruit postman let's fix and finish this end point.
So the first thing you have to do is to import the comment post that class.
So mind this is this is coming from up events namespace.
So with this event.
So make sure you have this use statement at the top.
And finally you have to return something from the end point.
And in case of API endpoints it's always the best idea to return the same resource that was either created
or modified.
So it's a restful way of doing that.
So let's return new comment resource comment.
So we are not simply returning comment not to use the default way of converting our model to J some
but we want to use the comment resource with some rules of how certain models should be serialized.
So now you can save the changes
and make sure that you have copied this token go to post mum and first let's specify the token using
API query sent this request
and we have some error.
Yes I forgot to use the new statement.
It's a class so we have to instantiate that.
So let's try again and this is how it looks like.
So it's not wrapped inside that data.
You might have not eased up and then only the properties that you have specified in the comment resource
are being returned back.
So this is how new resource of type comment would look like back when you will call this from your front
end or any other application and also interesting things you should notice is that usually when the
operation is successful you see out 200 HDP code but the standard way when you are creating resources
is to return 201 which means that the resource was created.
So mind up if you will be writing your front ends and expecting 200 as a success indicator when you
are creating resources.
It is actually and should be 201.
Now let's try another way of specifying the token.
I think the most useful one through the header.
So I think it's a better option not only because well you want stored the API token which doesn't really
change at least right now for the user in the URL parameter.
For example if you will be testing that in a browser then well this will probably saved in his story
and then can be easily reused by someone else.
We don't want that and additionally if you will use the or send the tokens inside the header in your
front end when we will be working with you as it's actually very easy to tell the javascript library
that we'll be using for making requests to the API to set this authorization header ultimately for all
requests.
So then you don't really have to worry about whether you should outright certain the request or not.
This would make things much easier.
Of course you will only see whites.
Why is this a better option when will implement this but while you have to believe me for now that it's
a better way.
So since we have to create this alteration header it's actually very easy to do that in postman.
Just copy the token from here and remove this query parameter.
Go to the outer reception tab from the type.
Select bureau token and paste the token here.
Well at this point postman will automatically generate the authorization header for you but if you will
press preview request you can preview what header is actually being sent under the temporary headers
option.
So there is authorization with the Bureau value space and your token so if you will send this request
you will get back a successful response that the new comment was posted.
Now finally the API token that you have passed through the query parameters doesn't have to be called
API token.
This is also configurable so if you will go to the file and find a configuration for API there are two
additional options you can provide.
The first is input key.
This is by default API token and that would be the name of the query parameter you will be passing like
this one API token.
So if you will change it up to something else like simply a token now you should be passing the token
like that.
Additionally remember that we have created a migration which added a new column the column name was
also API token and this is also configurable.
You can add a storage key property under API guard and call it differently so you can also call it token
but then remember that the migration should also contain the same name.
So if you are making migration make sure you can figure it out and decide how to call it beforehand
and then lot of ill will automatically look for a column inside the user stable exactly as the storage
key here configured but of course by default.
This is API token and will leave it like that just so you know how to configure that.
If you need that for any reason.